Final Project: Proposal
================

Group members: Tanya Butt (thb2114), Irene Martinez-Morata (im2557),
Catherine Lucey (cml2270)

Tentative project title: “The Potential Associations between Covid-19
Rates and Specialized High School SAT (SH SAT) Test Scores from NYC
middle school districts” Motivation for this project: We aim to assess
the potential impact of Covid-19 on SH SAT offers, we hypothesize that
existing inequalities between school districts in accessibility to
specialized high schools would be potentially exacerbated in districts
with higher Covid-19 incidence rates.

Some research questions that we aim to answer include: ● What is the
association between the proportion of students offered admission in a SH
SAT and the covid incidence rate in 2021? ● Were test scores more
variable in 2020 than they were in previous years? Was the change in
scores correlated with increases/decreases ● What is the variation in
admission rates by school between 2016 until 2020 ? ● Did the number of
people applying to specialized high schools change during Covid-19?

Intended final products: ● A website with an overview and the main
results from our projects, as well as background on the history of the
specialized school system in New York ● Interactive map with school
names, and % admissions, and Covid 19 rates. ● Average % of admission
across years 2016/2019 compared to 2020/2021 ● Change by Covid-19 rates
● Change by Covid-19 rates adjusted for SES variables (e.g., median
household income, % students eligible for free lunch) ● 2 minute
narrated screencast

Anticipated data sources: SH SAT Admissions Test Offers Data: 2015-2021
SHSAT Admissions Test Offers By Sending School, NYC Open Data.
(<https://data.cityofnewyork.us/browse?q=SHSAT&sortBy=relevance>)

Potential Covid-19 Data: New York State Statewide Covid-19 Admissions by
Zip Code, New York State Department of Health, Open Data
(<https://health.data.ny.gov/Health/New-York-State-Statewide-COVID-19-Admissions-by-Zi/kmxh-hz9i>)

DOHMH COVID-19 Antibody-by-Neighborhood Poverty, NYC Open Data
(<https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Health/DOHMH-COVID-19-Antibody-by-Neighborhood-Poverty/vajk-p37e>)

Planned Analyses and Anticipated Challenges: We anticipate difficulties
reconciling zip code-level Covid data with school district locations. We
also anticipate difficulties regarding which COVID-19 dataset to use for
our analysis.

Planned timeline: Week of Nov. 15th - identify appropriate COVID-19 data
source, finalize research question, write project introduction, create
website template Week of Nov. 22 - clean data, create relevant
charts/tables, begin exploratory data analysis Week of Nov. 29 -
continue exploratory data analysis and develop visualizations Week of
Dec. 6th - create 2 minute screen cast, write discussion, finalize
submission
